Light Freshness Edit: ASP.NET - Startup, gRPC, YARP, SPA (#37053)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/startup.md

---

> title: App Startup in ASP.NET Core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: App startup in ASP.NET Core
```
Per repo guidelines, titles use sentence case.  First word and proper nouns capitalized.  In this case startup is not a proper noun.

Author: Would you share the link to the repo guidelines? Here is the guidance we have for metadata -- https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/platform/metadata-required-articles. Thanks

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-7.0"

ASP.NET Core apps created with the web templates contain the application startup code in the _Program.cs_ file.

For Blazor startup guidance, which adds to or supersedes the guidance in this article, see [ASP.NET Core Blazor startup](xref:blazor/fundamentals/startup).

The following app startup code supports several app types:

> * [Blazor web apps](xref:blazor/index#build-a-full-stack-web-app-with-blazor)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Blazor Web Apps](xref:blazor/index#build-a-full-stack-web-app-with-blazor)
```
Proper noun here I think.

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/startup/9.0_samples/WebAll/Program.cs?name=snippet)]

Apps that use the <xref:System.Diagnostics.Tracing.EventSource> can measure the startup time to understand and optimize startup performance. The <!--keep-->[ServerReady](https://source.dot.net/#Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting/Internal/HostingEventSource.cs,76) event in the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting?displayProperty=fullName> represents the point where the server is ready to respond to requests.

<a name="IStartupFilter"></a>

## Extend Startup with startup filters

Use <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.IStartupFilter>:

* To configure middleware at the beginning or end of an app's middleware pipeline without an explicit call to `Use{Middleware}`. Use `IStartupFilter` to add defaults to the beginning of the pipeline without explicitly registering the default middleware. `IStartupFilter` allows a different component to call `Use{Middleware}` on behalf of the app author.

* To create a pipeline of `Configure` methods. [IStartupFilter.Configure](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.IStartupFilter.Configure%2A) can set a middleware to run before or after middleware added by libraries.

> An `IStartupFilter` instance implements the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.StartupBase.Configure%2A>method, which receives and returns an `Action<IApplicationBuilder>`. An <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.IApplicationBuilder> defines a class to configure an app's request pipeline. For more information, see [Create a middleware pipeline with IApplicationBuilder](xref:fundamentals/middleware/index#create-a-middleware-pipeline-with-iapplicationbuilder).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `IStartupFilter` implementation provides a <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.StartupBase.Configure%2A> method that receives and returns an Action<IApplicationBuilder>. An <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.IApplicationBuilder> defines a class to configure an app's request pipeline. For more information, see [Create a middleware pipeline with IApplicationBuilder](xref:fundamentals/middleware/index#create-a-middleware-pipeline-with-iapplicationbuilder).
```
"imlemenation implements" sounds goofy.  Alhtough technicaly correct if I squint, it needed an improvment certtainly. Changing to "instance implements" is technically incorrect, since instances don't implement interfaces, classes do.  See what you think of my suggestion above.

Also a minor item fixed: missing space added after a bracket.
